- [Narrator] The final integration pattern
that we will talk about in this course
is another Ingress pattern called the Edge pattern.
Much like the aggregator
was a subset of the Gateway pattern,
the Edge pattern is also a subset of the Gateway pattern.
The basic problem that we need to solve
with the Edge pattern comes in two flavors.
The most common is that using a Gateway
becomes a scaling concern as one client type, say mobile,
contributes to request volume significantly more
than other services.
As such, scaling the Gateway becomes wasteful.
The other problem is similar to the aggregation
in that a client doesn't just need a single touch point.
It needs special business logic as well,
that only applies to this client.
Edge Services really become very much
client-specific Gateways.
They provide the benefits of aggregation,
consolidation companies and complexity isolation,
while doing so based on the sole needs of a specific client.
These Edge Services focus on a specific client,
so their isolation pattern
is directly addressing that client.
Say we have data that a mobile client doesn't need
because it isn't available in the application,
but when we use an Edge Service, we can target the payload
while allowing the system to scale with need,
while not exposing data that the client itself cannot use.
Edge design very much follows the Gateway pattern
as a whole.
First and foremost, however,
is you need to identify the client
and the needs of your client as well as the constraints.
Since you have such laser focus on a specific client,
you can spend a lot more dedicated focus on that client.
Next, based on that information,
you build your contracts and associated models.
You can implement the APIs and contracts
for your client Edge Service.
One benefit here,
especially with a very specific client focus,
is that your passivity concerns only last
as long as your client version is in scope.
This is very powerful in worlds like mobile
where you can drive upgrades from within the application
and keep your client usage at a relatively current level.
So you can make more non-passive changes
by forcing a client upgrade.
So at this point, you may wonder
if the Gateway and Edge Services are so similar,
why do we have two patterns, and why have both?
And this is a great question.
And I'll give you a little early hint here.
I don't use Gateways I only use Edge Services.
On paper they are very similar.
By focusing on a client for the Edge,
you can apply all of the Gateway patterns,
to that client only, but in both cases,
we're handling things like isolation, consolidation,
aggregating and proxying,
it's whether it's for the whole system or just one client.
The Edge becomes much more flexible in my opinion,
because it targets the clients specifically,
any aggregation needs can be handled more robustly
in an Edge Service,
because the client needs being taken into account.
Consolidation and isolation needs are also more flexible
with an Edge Service for the same reason.
A big win for the Edge pattern
is that you can have a more scalable component.
Because you are targeting a single client,
as that client load increases or decreases,
you can scale your service appropriately.
You can also better introduce throttling,
specific to a client type
without applying it to your system as a whole
as you would have to with a Gateway.
The Edge pattern is also more flexible
when new clients come on board.
By using the Edge pattern,
no other system will be impacted with this advent
of a new client.
With a Gateway, you have to deploy the entire Gateway
to address the needs of these new clients.
Well with the Edge Service,
you just deploy the new service
and the new client picks it up.
On the same lines, you won't impact as many types of clients
when you do need to deploy new versions
of your Edge Services, because they're very targeted.
When it comes to maintenance however, the Gateway wins.
You get consolidation of modules and underlying processing,
so keeping clients in sync becomes much easier.
You're also deploying fewer instance types
across the system, again, improving maintainability
for their parts.
As I stated before I only use the Edge pattern anymore,
but I do always use it and that's the key.
Isolation of clients is critical
to preventing exposing your entire system to the world
and for preventing clients from calling unapproved APIs.
Add an OAuth and you have a very good security footprint
on the Edge Services.
In addition, by targeting this way,
I can handle any of the needs of a client much more quickly,
because I know that there's only one component impacted
by changing the Edge service.